Article 14. Equality before law — The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India.
Article 19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc. — (1) All citizens shall have the right (a) to freedom of speech and expression; (b) to assemble peaceably and without arms; (c) to form associations or unions; (d) to move freely throughout the territory of India; (e) to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India; (f) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.
Article 21. Protection of life and personal liberty — No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according to procedure established by law.
Article 32. Remedies for enforcement of rights conferred by this Part — (1) The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of the rights conferred by this Part is guaranteed. (2) The Supreme Court shall have power to issue directions or orders or writs for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by this Part.
Article 51A. Fundamental duties — It shall be the duty of every citizen of India (a) to abide by the Constitution and respect its ideals and institutions, the National Flag and the National Anthem; (b) to cherish and follow the noble ideals which inspired our national struggle for freedom; (c) to uphold and protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India.
Article 73. Extent of executive power of the Union — (1) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive power of the Union shall extend to the matters with respect to which Parliament has power to make laws.
Article 124. Establishment and constitution of Supreme Court — (1) There shall be a Supreme Court of India consisting of a Chief Justice of India and such number of other Judges as Parliament may by law prescribe.
Article 226. Power of High Courts to issue certain writs — (1) Every High Court shall have power to issue to any person or authority directions, orders or writs for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III and for any other purpose.
Article 352. Proclamation of Emergency — (1) If the President is satisfied that a grave emergency exists whereby the security of India or of any part of the territory thereof is threatened, he may, by Proclamation, make a declaration to that effect.
Article 368. Power of Parliament to amend the Constitution and procedure therefor — (1) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, Parliament may in exercise of its constituent power amend by way of addition, variation or repeal any provision of this Constitution.
