Part III — Fundamental Rights

Article 14
The State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal
protection of the laws within the territory of India.

Article 19
1. All citizens shall have the right—
(a) to freedom of speech and expression;
(b) to assemble peaceably and without arms;
(c) to form associations or unions;
(d) to move freely throughout the territory of India;
(e) to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India;
(g) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business.

Article 21
No person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty except according
to procedure established by law.

Article 25
1. Subject to public order, morality and health and to the other provisions
of this Part, all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and
the right freely to profess, practise and propagate religion.

Article 32
1. The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the
enforcement of the rights conferred by this Part is guaranteed.

Part IV — Directive Principles of State Policy

Article 38
1. The State shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing
and protecting as effectively as it may a social order in which justice,
social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the
national life.

Article 39
The State shall, in particular, direct its policy towards securing—
(a) that the citizens, men and women equally, have the right to an adequate
means of livelihood;
(b) that the ownership and control of the material resources of the community
are so distributed as best to subserve the common good;
(c) that the operation of the economic system does not result in the
concentration of wealth and means of production to the common detriment.

Article 44
The State shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code
throughout the territory of India.

Article 51
The State shall endeavour to—
(a) promote international peace and security;
(b) maintain just and honourable relations between nations;
(c) foster respect for international law and treaty obligations;
(d) encourage settlement of international disputes by arbitration.

Part IVA — Fundamental Duties

Article 51A
It shall be the duty of every citizen of India—
(a) to abide by the Constitution and respect its ideals and institutions;
(b) to cherish and follow the noble ideals which inspired our national
struggle for freedom;
(c) to uphold and protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India;
(d) to defend the country and render national service when called upon;
(e) to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all
the people of India transcending religious, linguistic and regional or
sectional diversities.
